Documentation/observability/hubble/configuration/tls.rst, before:

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

**********
Hubble TLS
**********

This page provides guidance to configure Hubble with TLS in a way that suits your
environment. Instructions to enable Hubble are provided as part of each
Cilium :ref:`getting_started` guide.

.. _hubble_configure_tls_certs:

TLS certificates
================

When Hubble Relay is deployed, Hubble listens on a TCP port on the host network.
This allows Hubble Relay to communicate with all Hubble instances in the
cluster. Connections between Hubble instances and Hubble Relay are secured using
mutual TLS (mTLS) by default.

TLS certificates can be generated automatically or manually provided.

The following options are available to configure TLS certificates automatically:

* cilium's `certgen <https://github.com/cilium/certgen>`__ (using a Kubernetes ``CronJob``)
* `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/>`__
* `Helm <https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/function_list/#gensignedcert>`__

Each of these method handles certificate rotation differently, but the end
result is the secrets containing the key pair will be updated. As Hubble server
and Hubble Relay support TLS certificates hot reloading, including CA
certificates, this does not disrupt any existing connection. New connections
are automatically established using the new certificates without having to
restart Hubble server or Hubble Relay.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: CronJob (certgen)

        When using certgen, TLS certificates are generated at installation time
        and a Kubernetes ``CronJob`` is scheduled to renew them (regardless of
        their expiration date). The certgen method is easier to implement than
        cert-manager but less flexible.

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true               # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=cronJob             # auto generate certificates using cronJob method
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095  # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)
            --set hubble.tls.auto.schedule="0 0 1 */4 *"     # schedule for certificates re-generation (crontab syntax)

    .. group-tab:: cert-manager

        This method relies on `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/>`__ to generate
        the TLS certificates. cert-manager has becomes the de facto way to manage TLS on
        Kubernetes, and it has the following advantages compared to the other
        documented methods:

        * Support for multiple issuers (e.g. a custom CA,
          `Vault <https://www.vaultproject.io/>`__,
          `Let's Encrypt <https://letsencrypt.org/>`__,
          `Google's Certificate Authority Service <https://cloud.google.com/certificate-authority-service>`__,
          and more) allowing to choose the issuer fitting your organization's
          requirements.
        * Manages certificates via a
          `CRD <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/>`__
          which is easier to inspect with Kubernetes tools than PEM files.

        **Installation steps**:

        #. First, install `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/>`__
           and setup an `issuer <https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/>`_.
           Please make sure that your issuer is able to create certificates under the
           ``cilium.io`` domain name.
        #. Install/upgrade Cilium including the following Helm flags:

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true                                 # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=certmanager                           # auto generate certificates using cert-manager
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095                    # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.group="cert-manager.io" # Reference to cert-manager's issuer
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.kind="ClusterIssuer"
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.name="ca-issuer"

    .. group-tab:: Helm

        When using Helm, TLS certificates are (re-)generated every time Helm is used
        for install or upgrade.

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true               # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=helm                # auto generate certificates using helm method
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095  # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)

        The downside of the Helm method is that while certificates are automatically
        generated, they are not automatically renewed.  Consequently, running
        ``helm upgrade`` is required when certificates are about to expire (i.e. before
        the configured ``hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration``).

    .. group-tab:: User Provided Certificates

        In order to provide your own TLS certificates, ``hubble.tls.auto.enabled`` must be
        set to ``false``, secrets containing the certificates must be created in the
        ``kube-system`` namespace, and the secret names must be provided to Helm.

        Provided files must be **base64 encoded** PEM certificates.

        In addition, the **Common Name (CN)** and **Subject Alternative Name (SAN)**
        of the certificate for Hubble server MUST be set to
        ``*.{cluster-name}.hubble-grpc.cilium.io`` where ``{cluster-name}`` is the
        cluster name defined by ``cluster.name`` (defaults to ``default``).

        Once the certificates have been issued, the secrets must be created in the ``kube-system`` namespace.

        Each secret must contain the following keys:

        - ``tls.crt``: The certificate file.
        - ``tls.key``: The private key file.
        - ``ca.crt``: The CA certificate file.

        The following examples demonstrates how to create the secrets.

        Create the hubble server certificate secret:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-server-certs --from-file=hubble-server.crt --from-file=hubble-server.key --from-file=ca.crt

        If hubble-relay is enabled, the following secrets must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-relay-server-certs --from-file=hubble-relay-server.crt --from-file=hubble-relay-server.key --from-file=ca.crt
          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-relay-client-certs --from-file=hubble-relay-client.crt --from-file=hubble-relay-client.key --from-file=ca.crt

        If hubble-ui is enabled, the following secret must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-ui-client-certs --from-file=hubble-ui-client.crt --from-file=hubble-ui-client.key --from-file=ca.crt

        Lastly, if the Hubble metrics API is enabled, the following secret must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-metrics-certs --from-file=hubble-metrics.crt --from-file=hubble-metrics.key --from-file=ca.crt

        After the secrets have been created, the secret names must be provided to Helm and automatic certificate generation must be disabled:

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=false                                       # Disable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-server-certs"
            --set hubble.relay.tls.server.enabled=true                                # Enable TLS on Hubble Relay (optional)
            --set hubble.relay.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-relay-server-certs"
            --set hubble.relay.tls.client.existingSecret="hubble-relay-client-certs"
            --set hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret="hubble-ui-client-certs"
            --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true                                     # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API (optional)
            --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-metrics-certs"

        - ``hubble.relay.tls.server.existingSecret`` and ``hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret``
          only need to be provided when ``hubble.relay.tls.server.enabled=true`` (default ``false``).
        - ``hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret`` only needs to be provided when ``hubble.ui.enabled`` (default ``false``).
        - ``hubble.metrics.tls.server.existingSecret`` only needs to be provided when ``hubble.metrics.tls.enabled`` (default ``false``).
          For more details on configuring the Hubble metrics API with TLS, see :ref:`hubble_configure_metrics_tls`.


Troubleshooting
---------------

If you encounter issues after enabling TLS, you can use the instructions below to help diagnose the problem.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: cert-manager


        While installing Cilium or cert-manager you may get the following error:

        ::

            Error: Internal error occurred: failed calling webhook "webhook.cert-manager.io": Post "https://cert-manager-webhook.cert-manager.svc:443/mutate?timeout=10s": dial tcp x.x.x.x:443: connect: connection refused

        This happens when cert-manager's webhook (which is used to verify the
        ``Certificate``'s CRD resources) is not available. There are several ways to
        resolve this issue. Pick one of the options below:

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: Install CRDs first

                Install cert-manager CRDs before Cilium and cert-manager (see `cert-manager's documentation about installing CRDs with kubectl <https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/helm/#option-1-installing-crds-with-kubectl>`__):

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ kubectl create -f cert-manager.crds.yaml

                Then install cert-manager, configure an issuer, and install Cilium.

            .. tab:: Upgrade Cilium

                Upgrade Cilium from an installation with TLS disabled:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cilium cilium/cilium \
                        --set hubble.tls.enabled=false \
                        ...

                Then install cert-manager, configure an issuer, and upgrade Cilium enabling TLS:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cilium cilium/cilium --set hubble.tls.enabled=true

            .. tab:: Disable webhook

                Disable cert-manager validation (assuming Cilium is installed in the ``kube-system`` namespace):

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ kubectl label namespace kube-system cert-manager.io/disable-validation=true

                Then install Cilium, cert-manager, and configure an issuer.

            .. tab:: Host network webhook

                Configure cert-manager to expose its webhook within the host network namespace:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
                            --set webhook.hostNetwork=true \
                            --set webhook.tolerations='["operator": "Exists"]'

                Then configure an issuer and install Cilium.

    .. group-tab:: CronJob (certgen)

        If you are using ArgoCD, you may encounter issues on the initial
        installation because of how ArgoCD handles Helm hooks specified in the
        ``helm.sh/hook`` annotation.

        The ``hubble-generate-certs`` Job specifies a ``post-install`` Helm
        hook in order to generate the required Certificates at initial install time, since
        the CronJob will only run on the configured schedule which could be
        hours or days after the initial installation.

        Since ArgoCD will only run ``post-install`` hooks after all pods are
        ready and running, you may encounter a situation where the
        ``hubble-generate-certs`` Job is never run.

        It cannot be configured as a ``pre-install`` hook because it requires Cilium
        to be running first, and Hubble Relay cannot become ready until
        certificates are provisioned.

        To work around this, you can manually run the ``certgen`` CronJob:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

            $ kubectl -n kube-system create job hubble-generate-certs-initial --from cronjob/hubble-generate-certs

    .. group-tab:: Helm

        When using Helm certificates are not automatically renewed. If you
        encounter issues with expired certificates, you can manually renew them
        by running ``helm upgrade`` to renew the certificates.

    .. group-tab:: User Provided Certificates

        If you encounter issues with the certificates, you can check the
        certificates and keys by decoding them:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 -d | openssl x509 -text -noout
            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.key}' | base64 -d | openssl rsa -text -noout
            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 -d | openssl x509 -text -noout

        The same commands can be used for the other secrets as well.

        If hubble-relay is enabled but not responding or the pod is failing it's readiness probe,
        check the certificates and ensure the client certificate is issued by the CA (``ca.crt``) specified in the ``hubble-server-certs`` secret.

        Additionally you must ensure the **Common Name (CN)** and **Subject Alternative Name (SAN)**
        of the certificate for Hubble server MUST be set to
        ``*.{cluster-name}.hubble-grpc.cilium.io`` where ``{cluster-name}`` is
        the cluster name defined by ``cluster.name`` (defaults to ``default``).

.. _hubble_configure_metrics_tls:

Metrics TLS and Authentication
===============================

Starting with Cilium 1.16, Hubble supports configuring TLS on the Hubble
metrics API in addition to the Hubble observer API.

This can be done by specifying the following options to Helm at install or
upgrade time, along with the TLS configuration options described in the
previous section.

To enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API, add the following Helm flag to your
list of options:

::

    --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API

If you also want to enable authentication using mTLS on the Hubble metrics API,
first create a ConfigMap with a CA certificate to use for verifying client
certificates:

::

    kubectl -n kube-system create configmap hubble-metrics-ca --from-file=ca.crt

Then, add the following flags to your Helm command to enable mTLS:

::

    --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true                       # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API
    --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.mtls.enabled=true           # Enable mTLS authentication on the Hubble metrics API
    --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.mtls.name=hubble-metrics-ca # Use the CA certificate from the ConfigMap

After the configuration is applied, clients will be required to authenticate
using a certificate signed by the configured CA certificate to access the
Hubble metrics API.

.. note::

  When using TLS with the Hubble metrics API you will need to update your
  Prometheus scrape configuration to use HTTPS by setting a ``tls_config`` and
  provide the path to the CA certificate. When using mTLS you will also need to
  provide a client certificate and key signed by the CA certificate for
  Prometheus to authenticate to the Hubble metrics API.

Commit message:

Documentation: Link between Hubble metrics and Hubble metrics TLS docs
Signed-off-by: Chance Zibolski <chance.zibolski@gmail.com>

Documentation/observability/hubble/configuration/tls.rst, after:

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

**********
Hubble TLS
**********

This page provides guidance to configure Hubble with TLS in a way that suits your
environment. Instructions to enable Hubble are provided as part of each
Cilium :ref:`getting_started` guide.

.. _hubble_configure_tls_certs:

TLS certificates
================

When Hubble Relay is deployed, Hubble listens on a TCP port on the host network.
This allows Hubble Relay to communicate with all Hubble instances in the
cluster. Connections between Hubble instances and Hubble Relay are secured using
mutual TLS (mTLS) by default.

TLS certificates can be generated automatically or manually provided.

The following options are available to configure TLS certificates automatically:

* cilium's `certgen <https://github.com/cilium/certgen>`__ (using a Kubernetes ``CronJob``)
* `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/>`__
* `Helm <https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/function_list/#gensignedcert>`__

Each of these method handles certificate rotation differently, but the end
result is the secrets containing the key pair will be updated. As Hubble server
and Hubble Relay support TLS certificates hot reloading, including CA
certificates, this does not disrupt any existing connection. New connections
are automatically established using the new certificates without having to
restart Hubble server or Hubble Relay.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: CronJob (certgen)

        When using certgen, TLS certificates are generated at installation time
        and a Kubernetes ``CronJob`` is scheduled to renew them (regardless of
        their expiration date). The certgen method is easier to implement than
        cert-manager but less flexible.

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true               # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=cronJob             # auto generate certificates using cronJob method
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095  # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)
            --set hubble.tls.auto.schedule="0 0 1 */4 *"     # schedule for certificates re-generation (crontab syntax)

    .. group-tab:: cert-manager

        This method relies on `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/>`__ to generate
        the TLS certificates. cert-manager has becomes the de facto way to manage TLS on
        Kubernetes, and it has the following advantages compared to the other
        documented methods:

        * Support for multiple issuers (e.g. a custom CA,
          `Vault <https://www.vaultproject.io/>`__,
          `Let's Encrypt <https://letsencrypt.org/>`__,
          `Google's Certificate Authority Service <https://cloud.google.com/certificate-authority-service>`__,
          and more) allowing to choose the issuer fitting your organization's
          requirements.
        * Manages certificates via a
          `CRD <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/>`__
          which is easier to inspect with Kubernetes tools than PEM files.

        **Installation steps**:

        #. First, install `cert-manager <https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/>`__
           and setup an `issuer <https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/>`_.
           Please make sure that your issuer is able to create certificates under the
           ``cilium.io`` domain name.
        #. Install/upgrade Cilium including the following Helm flags:

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true                                 # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=certmanager                           # auto generate certificates using cert-manager
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095                    # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.group="cert-manager.io" # Reference to cert-manager's issuer
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.kind="ClusterIssuer"
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certManagerIssuerRef.name="ca-issuer"

    .. group-tab:: Helm

        When using Helm, TLS certificates are (re-)generated every time Helm is used
        for install or upgrade.

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=true               # enable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.auto.method=helm                # auto generate certificates using helm method
            --set hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration=1095  # certificates validity duration in days (default 3 years)

        The downside of the Helm method is that while certificates are automatically
        generated, they are not automatically renewed.  Consequently, running
        ``helm upgrade`` is required when certificates are about to expire (i.e. before
        the configured ``hubble.tls.auto.certValidityDuration``).

    .. group-tab:: User Provided Certificates

        In order to provide your own TLS certificates, ``hubble.tls.auto.enabled`` must be
        set to ``false``, secrets containing the certificates must be created in the
        ``kube-system`` namespace, and the secret names must be provided to Helm.

        Provided files must be **base64 encoded** PEM certificates.

        In addition, the **Common Name (CN)** and **Subject Alternative Name (SAN)**
        of the certificate for Hubble server MUST be set to
        ``*.{cluster-name}.hubble-grpc.cilium.io`` where ``{cluster-name}`` is the
        cluster name defined by ``cluster.name`` (defaults to ``default``).

        Once the certificates have been issued, the secrets must be created in the ``kube-system`` namespace.

        Each secret must contain the following keys:

        - ``tls.crt``: The certificate file.
        - ``tls.key``: The private key file.
        - ``ca.crt``: The CA certificate file.

        The following examples demonstrates how to create the secrets.

        Create the hubble server certificate secret:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-server-certs --from-file=hubble-server.crt --from-file=hubble-server.key --from-file=ca.crt

        If hubble-relay is enabled, the following secrets must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-relay-server-certs --from-file=hubble-relay-server.crt --from-file=hubble-relay-server.key --from-file=ca.crt
          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-relay-client-certs --from-file=hubble-relay-client.crt --from-file=hubble-relay-client.key --from-file=ca.crt

        If hubble-ui is enabled, the following secret must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-ui-client-certs --from-file=hubble-ui-client.crt --from-file=hubble-ui-client.key --from-file=ca.crt

        Lastly, if the Hubble metrics API is enabled, the following secret must be created:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

          $ kubectl -n kube-system create secret generic hubble-metrics-certs --from-file=hubble-metrics.crt --from-file=hubble-metrics.key --from-file=ca.crt

        After the secrets have been created, the secret names must be provided to Helm and automatic certificate generation must be disabled:

        ::

            --set hubble.tls.auto.enabled=false                                       # Disable automatic TLS certificate generation
            --set hubble.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-server-certs"
            --set hubble.relay.tls.server.enabled=true                                # Enable TLS on Hubble Relay (optional)
            --set hubble.relay.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-relay-server-certs"
            --set hubble.relay.tls.client.existingSecret="hubble-relay-client-certs"
            --set hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret="hubble-ui-client-certs"
            --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true                                     # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API (optional)
            --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.existingSecret="hubble-metrics-certs"

        - ``hubble.relay.tls.server.existingSecret`` and ``hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret``
          only need to be provided when ``hubble.relay.tls.server.enabled=true`` (default ``false``).
        - ``hubble.ui.tls.client.existingSecret`` only needs to be provided when ``hubble.ui.enabled`` (default ``false``).
        - ``hubble.metrics.tls.server.existingSecret`` only needs to be provided when ``hubble.metrics.tls.enabled`` (default ``false``).
          For more details on configuring the Hubble metrics API with TLS, see :ref:`hubble_configure_metrics_tls`.


Troubleshooting
---------------

If you encounter issues after enabling TLS, you can use the instructions below to help diagnose the problem.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: cert-manager


        While installing Cilium or cert-manager you may get the following error:

        ::

            Error: Internal error occurred: failed calling webhook "webhook.cert-manager.io": Post "https://cert-manager-webhook.cert-manager.svc:443/mutate?timeout=10s": dial tcp x.x.x.x:443: connect: connection refused

        This happens when cert-manager's webhook (which is used to verify the
        ``Certificate``'s CRD resources) is not available. There are several ways to
        resolve this issue. Pick one of the options below:

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: Install CRDs first

                Install cert-manager CRDs before Cilium and cert-manager (see `cert-manager's documentation about installing CRDs with kubectl <https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/helm/#option-1-installing-crds-with-kubectl>`__):

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ kubectl create -f cert-manager.crds.yaml

                Then install cert-manager, configure an issuer, and install Cilium.

            .. tab:: Upgrade Cilium

                Upgrade Cilium from an installation with TLS disabled:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cilium cilium/cilium \
                        --set hubble.tls.enabled=false \
                        ...

                Then install cert-manager, configure an issuer, and upgrade Cilium enabling TLS:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cilium cilium/cilium --set hubble.tls.enabled=true

            .. tab:: Disable webhook

                Disable cert-manager validation (assuming Cilium is installed in the ``kube-system`` namespace):

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ kubectl label namespace kube-system cert-manager.io/disable-validation=true

                Then install Cilium, cert-manager, and configure an issuer.

            .. tab:: Host network webhook

                Configure cert-manager to expose its webhook within the host network namespace:

                .. code-block:: shell-session

                    $ helm install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager \
                            --set webhook.hostNetwork=true \
                            --set webhook.tolerations='["operator": "Exists"]'

                Then configure an issuer and install Cilium.

    .. group-tab:: CronJob (certgen)

        If you are using ArgoCD, you may encounter issues on the initial
        installation because of how ArgoCD handles Helm hooks specified in the
        ``helm.sh/hook`` annotation.

        The ``hubble-generate-certs`` Job specifies a ``post-install`` Helm
        hook in order to generate the required Certificates at initial install time, since
        the CronJob will only run on the configured schedule which could be
        hours or days after the initial installation.

        Since ArgoCD will only run ``post-install`` hooks after all pods are
        ready and running, you may encounter a situation where the
        ``hubble-generate-certs`` Job is never run.

        It cannot be configured as a ``pre-install`` hook because it requires Cilium
        to be running first, and Hubble Relay cannot become ready until
        certificates are provisioned.

        To work around this, you can manually run the ``certgen`` CronJob:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

            $ kubectl -n kube-system create job hubble-generate-certs-initial --from cronjob/hubble-generate-certs

    .. group-tab:: Helm

        When using Helm certificates are not automatically renewed. If you
        encounter issues with expired certificates, you can manually renew them
        by running ``helm upgrade`` to renew the certificates.

    .. group-tab:: User Provided Certificates

        If you encounter issues with the certificates, you can check the
        certificates and keys by decoding them:

        .. code-block:: shell-session

            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 -d | openssl x509 -text -noout
            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.key}' | base64 -d | openssl rsa -text -noout
            $ kubectl -n kube-system get secret hubble-server-certs -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 -d | openssl x509 -text -noout

        The same commands can be used for the other secrets as well.

        If hubble-relay is enabled but not responding or the pod is failing it's readiness probe,
        check the certificates and ensure the client certificate is issued by the CA (``ca.crt``) specified in the ``hubble-server-certs`` secret.

        Additionally you must ensure the **Common Name (CN)** and **Subject Alternative Name (SAN)**
        of the certificate for Hubble server MUST be set to
        ``*.{cluster-name}.hubble-grpc.cilium.io`` where ``{cluster-name}`` is
        the cluster name defined by ``cluster.name`` (defaults to ``default``).

.. _hubble_configure_metrics_tls:

Hubble Metrics TLS and Authentication
=====================================

Starting with Cilium 1.16, Hubble supports configuring TLS on the Hubble
metrics API in addition to the Hubble observer API.

This can be done by specifying the following options to Helm at install or
upgrade time, along with the TLS configuration options described in the
previous section.

.. note::

  This section assumes that you have already enabled :ref:`Hubble metrics<hubble_metrics>`.

To enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API, add the following Helm flag to your
list of options:

::

    --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API

If you also want to enable authentication using mTLS on the Hubble metrics API,
first create a ConfigMap with a CA certificate to use for verifying client
certificates:

::

    kubectl -n kube-system create configmap hubble-metrics-ca --from-file=ca.crt

Then, add the following flags to your Helm command to enable mTLS:

::

    --set hubble.metrics.tls.enabled=true                       # Enable TLS on the Hubble metrics API
    --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.mtls.enabled=true           # Enable mTLS authentication on the Hubble metrics API
    --set hubble.metrics.tls.server.mtls.name=hubble-metrics-ca # Use the CA certificate from the ConfigMap

After the configuration is applied, clients will be required to authenticate
using a certificate signed by the configured CA certificate to access the
Hubble metrics API.

.. note::

  When using TLS with the Hubble metrics API you will need to update your
  Prometheus scrape configuration to use HTTPS by setting a ``tls_config`` and
  provide the path to the CA certificate. When using mTLS you will also need to
  provide a client certificate and key signed by the CA certificate for
  Prometheus to authenticate to the Hubble metrics API.
